Close the bay door!
Close the bay door now!
They're initiating launch.
Hey, Cap, how do we know
the good guys from the bad guys?
If they're shooting at you, they're bad.
Hey, Cap,
I found those bad guys
you were talking about.
You okay?
I'm not dead yet.
Let me ask you a question.
What if Pakistan marched
into Mumbai tomorrow
and you knew that they were
going to drag your daughters
into a soccer stadium for execution,
and you could just stop it,
with a flick of the switch.
Wouldn't you?
Wouldn't you all?
Not if it was your switch.
I'm sorry.
Did I step on your moment?
Satellites in range at 3,000 feet.
Falcon, status?
Engaging.
All right, Cap. I'm in.
Oh, shit.
Eight minutes, Cap.
Working on it.
What are you doing?
She's disabling security protocols
and dumping all the secrets
onto the Internet.
- Including HYDRA's.
- And S.H.I.E.L.D.'s.
If you do this,
none of your past is gonna remain hidden.
Are you sure you're ready
for the world to see you
as you really are?
Are you?
Ever hear
of an elephant graveyard?
Well, two years ago,
the elephant in the room was this scow.
This is the Roxxon Norco.
And, of course, you'll remember
that when she spilled a million gallons
of crude off Pensacola,
thanks to you,
not one fat cat saw a day in court.
What do you want from me?
Uh, nothing, sir.
I just needed a reason to kill you
that would play well on TV.
You see, I've moved on.
I found myself
a new political patron,
and this time tomorrow,
he'll have your job.
String him up.
Hey!
Come on.
You're not gonna freak out on me,
right?
I hope not.
Oh, my God.
He's strung up over the oil
tanker. They're gonna light him up, man.
Viking funeral.
Public execution.
Yeah, death by oil.
Broadcast will commence shortly.
Take final positions.
Okay. That's good.
Now give me cameras A through E
and we'll do a full tech rehearsal.
Malekith is going to fire
the Aether at a spot
where all the nine worlds
are connecting.
Amplifying the weapon's impact.
For each additional world,
the power will increase exponentially.
The effect would be universal.
But the Alignment is only temporary.
He must be in exactly
the right place at the right time.
Well, how do we know where that is?
We follow the directions.
This has happened before
thousands of years ago,
and the Ancients were there to see it.
All the great constructions,
the Mayans, the Chinese, the Egyptians.
They made use of the gravitational
effects of the Convergence.
And they left us a map.
Stonehenge,
Snowdon,
the Great Orme.
These are all coordinates taking us...
Here.
Greenwich?
The walls between worlds
will be almost non-existent.
Physics is going to go ballistic.
Increases and decreases in gravity,
spatial extrusions.
The very fabric of reality
is going to be torn apart.
I better get my pants.
Focus! This is important.
We have to hammer
them in all around the site
and then Jane and Erik will
activate them from the tower.
They're taped together.
Do you even know
what these things do?
No.
Neither do I.
- Come on, come on, come on!
- Right.
Holy...
Shit.
You needn't have come
so far, Asgardian.
Death would've come
to you soon enough.
Not by your hand.
Your universe was never meant to be.
Your world and your family
will be extinguished!
Alpha lock.
Falcon, where are you now?
I had to take a detour.
Oh, yeah!
I'm in.
Bravo lock.
Two down, one to go.
All S.H.I.E.L.D. pilots, scramble.
We're the only air support
Captain Rogers has got.
Disabling the encryption
is an executive order.
It takes two Alpha Level members.
Don't worry. Company's coming.
Did you get my flowers?
- I'm glad you're here, Nick.
- Really?
Because I thought you had me killed.
You know how the game works.
So why make me head of S.H.I.E.L.D.?
Because you were the best,
and the most ruthless person I ever met.
I did what I did to protect people.
Our enemies are your enemies, Nick.
Disorder. War.
It's just a matter of time before
a dirty bomb goes off in Moscow,
or an EMP fries Chicago.
Diplomacy?
A holding action, Nick. A band-aid.
And you know where I learned that.
Bogota.
You didn't ask.
You just did what had to be done.
I can bring order to the lives
of seven billion people
by sacrificing 20 million.
It's the next step, Nick.
If you have the courage to take it.
No. I have the courage not to.
Retinal scanner active.
You don't think we've wiped
your clearance from the system?
I know you erased my password.
Probably deleted my retinal scan.
But if you want to stay ahead
of me, Mr. Secretary,
you need to keep both eyes open.
Alpha level confirmed.
Encryption code accepted.
Safeguards removed.
Is your gun up?
Yep. What do I do?
Stay on my six, cover high
and don't shoot me in the back.
Six, high, back. All right.
You see that? Nailed it.
Yeah, you really killed the glass.
You think I was aiming for the bulb?
You can't hit a bulb at this distance.
All personnel, we have hostiles
- on east unit 12.
- Over there!
- I repeat, hostiles on east unit 12.
- I'm out. Give me...
- You got extra magazines?
- They're not universal, Tony.
I know what I'm doing, I make this stuff.
Give me another one.
- One of yours.
- I don't have one that fits that gun.
You've got, like, five of them.
Here's what I'm going to do.
Save my spot, ready?
- What'd you see?
- Too fast. Nothing.
Here we go.
Three guys, one girl, all armed.
God, I would kill
for some armour right now.
- You're right. We need backup.
- Yeah, a bunch.
You know what?
Is that...
Yep.
- Are those...
- Yeah.
Merry Christmas, buddy.
Jarvis, target
EXTREMIS heat signatures.
Disable with extreme prejudice.
Yes, sir.
What are you waiting for?
It's Christmas.
Take them to church.
Gentlemen.
Incoming!
Jarvis, get Igor to steady this thing.
This is how you've been managing
your down time, huh?
Everybody needs a hobby.
Heartbreaker, help Red Snapper out,
will you?
Nice timing.
Oh, yeah. That's awesome.
Give me a suit, okay?
Oh, I'm sorry,
they're only coded to me.
What does that mean?
I got you covered.
Good evening, Colonel.
Can I give you a lift?
Very funny.
Charlie carrier is 45 degrees
off the port bow.
Six minutes.
Hey, Sam, gonna need a ride.
Roger. Let me know when you're ready.
I just did!
You know, you're a lot
heavier than you look.
I had a big breakfast.
Steve!
Cap! Cap, come in.
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm here.
I'm still on the helicarrier.
- Where are you?
- I'm grounded.
The suit's down. Sorry, Cap.
Don't worry. I got it.
We're running out of time.
- Almost there.
- Are you sure this is going to work?
These devices were made
to detect anomalies, not cause them.
Come on.
Come on, Darcy.
You know, with all that power,
I thought you'd hit harder.
Done.
The Convergence will be
in full effect in seven minutes.
That just means we have
to keep Malekith busy for eight.
Okay, you might want
to hold on to something.
That is awesome!
How did you do that?
Well, the gravitational fields
interact with the weak spots
between worlds, creating...
Get the guy with the sword!
- Oops.
- Let's go.
What the hell just happened?
Move!
What are you all doing?
You need to get out of here, now!
You're joking, right?
That's Thor out there.
He's waving his hammer
around and everything!
People are gonna die, Buck.
I can't let that happen.
Please don't make me do this.
Done.
And it's trending.
Unless you want a two-inch
hole in your sternum,
I'd put that gun down.
That was armed the moment
you pinned it on.
Emergency evacuation alert.
All personnel,
proceed to designated safety zones.
All S.H.I.E.L.D. agents regroup
at Rally Point Delta.
Sir, the Council's been breached.
- Repeat, Dispatch.
- Black Widow's up there.
Headed up.
- Falcon?
- Yeah.
Rumlow's headed for the Council.
I'm on it.
Drop it!
Sir, I've located Ms Potts.
About time.
Stop!
Put it down. Put it down. Put it down.
See what happens when you hang out
with my ex-girlfriends?
You're such a jerk.
Yep. We'll talk about it over dinner.
Come on. A little more, baby.
Oh!
Is this guy bothering you?
Don't get up.
Ooh.
Is it hot in there?
Stuck? Do you feel a little stuck?
Like a little turtle,
cooking in his little turtle suit.
Oh, Tony.
She's watching.
I think you should close your eyes.
Close your eyes.
You don't want to see this.
Yeah, you take a minute.
Jarvis, give me a suit right now!
Oh, come on!
Mr President!
Just hold on, all right? I'm coming.
Just hold on. Hold on.
Okay.
Bye-bye.
Brace yourself.
You look damn good, Mr President,
but I'm gonna need that suit back.
The President is secure, Tony
- I'm clearing the area.
- Nice work.
- Ready, sir?
- What do you mean "ready"?
Pep, I got you.
Relax, I got you.
Just look at me!
Honey, I can't reach any
further and you can't stay there.
All right?
You've got to let go.
You've got to let go!
I'll catch you, I promise.
No!
Confirming ship is hostile.
Confirmed, ship is hostile.
You have permission to engage.
Roger.
Missiles locked.
Missiles away.
Missiles off target.
I repeat, target missed.
I'm losing control.
Mayday! Mayday!
Lost positive control.
What are you doing?
My signal's not connecting.
Jane!
Come on.
Are you all right?
You saved my life.
Yeah.
I guess I did.
- Darcy?
- Jane!
- Ian!
- Selvig!
Mew mew!
Mind the gap.
How do I get to Greenwich?
Take this train. Three stops.
Mind the gap.
Sorry. Sorry.
- We're out of time.
- Jane.
Jane!
I'm on 41, headed toward
the southwest stairwell.
This is gonna hurt.
There are no prisoners with HYDRA.
Just order.
And order only comes through pain.
- You ready for yours?
- Man, shut the hell up.
Lieutenant, how much longer?
65 seconds to satellite link.
Targeting grid engaged.
Lowering weapons array now.
One minute.
30 seconds, Cap.
Stand by.
Charlie...
We've reached 3,000 feet.
Sat link coming online now.
Deploy algorithm.
Algorithm deployed.
We are go to target.
Target saturation reached.
All targets assigned.
Fire when ready.
Firing in...
Three,
two...
One.
Charlie lock.
Where are the targets?
Okay, Cap, get out of there.
Fire now.
- But, Steve...
- Do it!
Do it now!
What a waste.
So, you still on the fence
about Rogers' chances?
Time to go, Councilwoman.
This way. Come on.
You're going to fly me out of here.
You know, there was a time
I would've taken a bullet for you.
You already did.
You will again, when it's useful.
Romanoff.
Natasha.
Natasha! Come on!
Those really do sting.
Hail HYDRA.
A shame. I would've caught her.
Eject.
Well, here we are on the roof.
Mark 42, inbound.
I'll be damned.
The prodigal son returns.
Whatever.
You really didn't deserve her, Tony.
It's a pity.
I was so close to having her perfect.
Okay, okay, wait, wait, wait!
Slow down! Slow down!
You're right. I don't deserve her.
Here's where you're wrong.
She was already perfect.
Jarvis,
do me a favour and blow Mark 42.
No...
Thor!
We're too late.
The Convergence is at its peak.
Can those things stop him?
Not from here.
We can't get close enough.
I can.
Malekith!
Darkness returns, Asgardian.
Have you come to witness
the end of your universe?
I've come to accept
your surrender.
You think you can stop this?
The Aether cannot be destroyed.
But you can.
Thor! No.
Jane!
Everybody okay?
You're out of your depth, kid.
Son of a bitch!
Please tell me you got
that chopper in the air!
Sam, where are you?
41st floor! Northwest corner!
We're on it! Stay where you are!
Not an option!
41st floor! 41st!
It's not like they put the floor numbers
on the outside of the building.
Hill! Where's Steve?
You got a location on Rogers?
You know me.
No, I don't!
Bucky.
You've known me your whole life.
Your name is James Buchanan Barnes.
Shut up!
I'm not gonna fight you.
You're my friend.
You're my mission.
You're my mission!
Then finish it.
Because I'm with you
to the end of the line.
No more false faces.
You said you wanted the Mandarin.
You're looking right at him.
It was always me, Tony.
Right from the start.
I am the Mandarin!
I got nothing.
Jarvis, subject at my 12 o'clock
is not a target, disengage!
What?
Oh, what, are you mad at me?
Whoo!
Honey?
Oh, my God.
That was really violent.
You just scared the devil out of me.
I thought you were...
I was dead.
Why? Because I fell 200 feet?
Who's the hot mess now?
It's still debatable.
Probably tipping your way a little bit.
Why don't you dress
like this at home? Hmm?
Sport bra. The whole deal.
You know, I think I understand
why you don't want to give up the suits.
What am I going to complain
about now?
Well, it's me.
You'll think of something.
- No, don't touch me.
- Don't worry about it.
- No, I'm gonna burn you.
- No, you're not.
Not hot.
Am I gonna be okay?
No.
You're in a relationship with me.
Everything will never be okay.
But I think I can figure this out, yeah.
I almost had this 20 years ago
when I was drunk.
I think I can get you better.
That's what I do. I fix stuff.
And all your distractions?
Uh... I'm going to shave
them down a little bit.
Jarvis. Hey.
All wrapped up here, sir.
Will there be anything else?
You know what to do.
The Clean Slate Protocol, sir?
Screw it, it's Christmas.
Yes, yes.
Okay, so far?
Do you like it?
It'll do.
He's gonna come back.
Except, you know,
last time he was gone for,
like, two years.
Well, it's only been two days, so...
Did he say anything before he left?
Yeah, he had to figure
some stuff out with his father.
He kinda committed treason...
On our way out.
You once said there would
never be a wiser king than me.
You were wrong.
The Alignment has brought
all the realms together.
Every one of them saw you
offer your life to save them.
What can Asgard offer
its new king in return?
My life.
Father, I cannot be king of Asgard.
I will protect Asgard and all the realms
with my last and every breath,
but I cannot do so from that chair.
Loki, for all his grave imbalance,
understood rule as I know I never will.
The brutality, the sacrifice...
It changes you.
I'd rather be a good man
than a great king.
Is this my son I hear,
or the woman he loves?
When you speak,
do I never hear Mother's voice?
This is not for Jane, Father.
She does not know
what I came here to say.
Now, forbid me to see her,
or say she can rule at my side.
It changes nothing.
One son who wanted
the throne too much,
another who will not take it.
Is this my legacy?
Loki died with honor.
I shall try to live the same.
Is that not legacy enough?
It belongs to you.
If you are worthy of it.
I shall try to be.
I cannot give you my blessing,
nor can I wish you good fortune.
I know.
If I were proud of the man
my son had become,
even that, I could not say.
It would speak only from my heart.
Go,
my son.
Thank you, Father.
No.
Thank you.
A famous man once said,
"We create our own demons."
Who said that?
What does that even mean?
Doesn't matter.
I said it because he said it.
So, now, he was famous
and it's basically getting said
by two well-known guys.
I don't, uh...
I'm going to start again.
You start with something pure,
something exciting.
Then, come the mistakes.
The compromises.
We create our own demons.
Oh!
Great to see you! Oh, bloody hell!
As promised, I got Pepper
sorted out. It took some tinkering.
But then I thought to myself,
"Why stop there?"
Of course, there are people who
say progress is dangerous,
but I'll bet none of those idiots ever
had to live with a chestful of shrapnel.
And now, neither will I.
Let me tell you...
...that was the best sleep
I'd had in years.
It's okay. It's okay.
It's okay.
No, look.
So, if I were to wrap this up,
tie it with a bow, or whatever...
I guess I'd say my armour,
it was never a distraction,
or a hobby.
It was a cocoon.
And now,
I'm a changed man.
You can take away my house,
all my tricks and toys.
One thing you can't take away...
I am Iron Man.
On your left.
Do you solemnly swear to tell
the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth?
I do.
Why haven't we yet heard
from Captain Rogers?
I don't know what there is
left for him to say.
I think the wreck
in the middle of the Potomac
made his point fairly eloquently.
Well, he could explain how
this country is expected
to maintain its national security
now that he and you have laid waste
to our intelligence apparatus.
HYDRA was selling you lies,
not intelligence.
Many of which you seemed to have
had a personal hand in telling.
Agent, you should know
that there are some on this committee
who feel, given your service record,
both for this country and against it,
that you belong in a penitentiary.
Not mouthing off on Capitol Hill.
You're not going to put me in a prison.
You're not going to put any of us
in a prison. You know why?
Do enlighten us.
Because you need us.
Yes, the world is a vulnerable place,
and yes, we help make it that way.
But we're also the ones
best qualified to defend it.
So, if you want to arrest me, arrest me.
You'll know where to find me.
So, you've experienced
this sort of thing before.
You get used to it.
We've been data mining HYDRA's files.
Looks like a lot of rats
didn't go down with the ship.
I'm headed to Europe tonight.
Wanted to ask if you'd come.
There's something I got to do first.
How about you, Wilson?
Could use a man with your abilities.
I'm more of a soldier than a spy.
All right, then.
Anybody asks for me,
tell them they can find me, right here.
You should be honored.
That's about as close as he gets
to saying thank you.
Not going with him?
No.
- Not staying here.
- Nah.
I blew all my covers.
I got to go figure out a new one.
That might take a while.
I'm counting on it.
That thing you asked for,
I called in a few favors from Kiev.
Will you do me a favor? Call that nurse.
She's not a nurse.
And you're not a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent.
- What was her name again?
- Sharon.
She's nice.
Be careful, Steve.
You might not want to
pull on that thread.
You're going after him.
You don't have to come with me.
I know.
When do we start?